summary: 5 megapixel camera enhanced with camerawise hardware buttons, along with the brand new Media Center application, make the Sony Ericsson K850 a landmark product in the company portfolio. The K850 brings several brand new software and hardware solutions we pay special attention to later on.
 oneliner: Sony Ericsson's latest cameraphone, the Sony Ericsson K850, has been unveiled at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.
 
We called Sony Ericsson K810 the rebirth of the Cyber-shot. We're now looking at a great leap forward in developing the company's cameraphone lineup in the face of the glamorous Sony Ericsson K850. It brings a bunch of novelties in design, navigation and functionality. The quality 5 megapixel camera enhanced with camerawise hardware buttons, along with the brand new Media Center application, make the Sony Ericsson K850 a landmark product in the company portfolio.



Sony Ericsson K850 official pictures
Key features

5 MP autofocus camera with automatic lens cap and three dedicated hardware keys
Tri-band HSDPA (3.6 Mb), EDGE.
New Media Center, smart search, Manage Messages application
Monolith body with digicam-like battery cover
Brand new three soft keys
Innovative D-pad layout
Dedicated call and end keys
Large crystal-clear 2.2" display 
Memory card slot with dual card support and hot swap functionality
FM radio with RDS 
Bluetooth (with A2DP)
Multi-tasking support

Main disadvantages

Awkward D-pad
Dust easily accumulates behind the protective lens cover
Reversed soft key funtions, atypical for Sony Ericsson 
No Wi-Fi and infrared 
Fingerprint magnet

In June Sony Ericsson revealed its hottest addition to the Cyber-shot line: Sony Ericsson K850. The phone was labeled a milestone product not only for the Cyber-shot family, but for the entire Sony Ericsson portfolio. It is clear why it scores high with its wealth of features using the latest technologies. The K850 brings several brand new software and hardware solutions we pay special attention to later on. Make sure you keep in mind the three Cyber-shot handsets we reviewed most recently - the budget Sony Ericsson K550, the high-born Sony Ericsson K800 and its successful inheritor Sony Ericsson K810.
summary: The large 2.2" quality TFT display takes up most of the front panel and scores notably higher both in brightness and contrast. K850 accommodates some notable construction and navigation novelties: dedicated call and end keys, new D-pad layout, three-position camera key.
 oneliner: Sony Ericsson has unveiled its latest flagship smartphone, the K850, with a larger 2.2" TFT display and a host of new features.
 
Cyber-shot evolves
The soft and rounded Sony Ericsson K850 visually differs a lot from the Sony Ericsson K810, not to mention its predecessors. At least it stays faithful to the bar-shape form factor. K850 accommodates some notable construction and navigation novelties: dedicated call and end keys, new D-pad layout, three-position camera key, as well as an on/off camera key and a digicam-like bottom battery cover.




Sony Ericsson K850 • compared to Nokia N95 • compared to Sony Ericsson T650
The large 2.2" quality TFT display takes up most of the front panel and scores notably higher both in brightness and contrast, compared to the 2" TFT display of Sony Ericsson K810. Keeping almost the same dimensions while building larger displays is an issue that constantly nudges handset designers. In K850 the obvious solution is integrating the D-pad in the keyboard, thus making some room for the larger 2.2" display.
The display, and the entire front panel, has a nice mirror-like finish, but again it catches fingerprints rather easily, like the K810 and K800. Above it, a small secondary VGA camera is discretely located, along with the earpiece. The camera is beneath the panel surface, leaving the even surface of the front unspoiled.

Sony Ericsson K850 - speaker and secondary camera
Right below the display, we find the three brand new sensor like soft keys. They perform multiple functions varying by the context of different applications. The sensor like soft keys offer a truly novel experience in handling the Sony Ericsson K850. The diehard Sony Ericsson user will immediately notice that the location of the soft key functions are reversed. In other Sony Ericsson phones the More soft key is located on the right, whereas now it is called Options and corresponds to the new left soft key, with several exceptions. The proprietary "Back" key is absent, now replaced by the right soft key. The center soft key performs variable functions within applications. The logic behind all this is simple - in menus, where in other Sony Ericsson phones you have only one active soft key, the center soft key is to be used. Alternatively, in menus where both soft keys have functions (for example messaging -> templates), in other handsets you would have "Select" and "Info", while in K850 you have "Info", "Select" and "Back" soft key order. Reviewing the K850 was fun, as we often pressed the wrong soft key, driven by the force of habit. However, using the device for a week was enough for us to get the hang of the new allocation, owing to the simple fact that most leading phone manufactures use the same soft key order in their devices. The new soft keys in K850 are also a design decision, driven by the lack of space with the large display on pretty much the same dimensions as K810. We welcome this innovation by the Sony Ericsson team, which to us is an attempt to respond to users' demands.


The three soft keys and the keyboard
A bit below the three soft keys are the brand new dual-function Call / Quick Menu key and Clear / End key, that make the phone handling even better. The dedicated Call and End keys, along with the tree soft keys and the D-pad novelties are inconsistent with the longstanding way of doing things, but take the K850 closer to the mass market. Under the Call and End keys is the keypad with the T650 cool styling, however the keys have grown bigger. The rightmost column of the alphanumeric keys serves a double purpose: in Camera mode they're used for changing the shooting mode, scene mode, self-timer and flash options. Icons with blue backlighting explain the function of each key. The D-pad can also be used for zooming in and out when taking pictures, while scrolling up or down on changes the exposure compensation. Most of the Sony Ericsson users out there would be happy to see that Sony Ericsson has again used the sleeker D-pad instead of a joystick. It's now a thin color plastic rectangle, placed right within the keypad and enfolding the 2 and 5 key. A bold and controversial design indeed, as most Sony Ericsson phones have a confirming center of the D-pad or a joystick. In K850, the Confirm function is entrusted to the middle soft key, right above the D-pad - another decision that raises doubts about user-friendliness.

The debatable D-pad
The Sony Ericsson K850 left side features no keys. Neat and simple, all you see is the color stripe that runs along the side parts of the phone.


Left side: neat and sweet



The bottom part of the K850 features a digicam-like battery cover, which shelters the phone's battery, the SIM card, and the memory card slot. The latter deserves special attention since this is the first Sony Ericsson attempt at dual card support. Two cards are compatible with the slot: M2 and microSD.
ADVERTISEMENTS








The bottom part of the K850 features a digicam-like battery cover, which shelters the phone's battery, the SIM card, and the memory card slot. The latter deserves special attention since this is the first Sony Ericsson attempt at dual card support. Two cards are compatible with the slot: M2 and microSD. One is inserted face down, the other one face up, and both are hot-swappable. Apart from this, you will find the regular Fast Port, the mouthpiece and a wrist or neck strap eyelet. If you remove the SIM card in active phone mode, the phone will restart after a good delay and will start the demo mode. It would've been great if the phone was able to work in flight mode, without an inserted SIM. This drawback aside, handling the SIM, the memory card and the battery is effortless, thanks to the integrated push-to-eject mechanism. The same we see used in digicams nowadays. The design of the battery cover is a nice novelty, but we think it has one disadvantage. The lower end of the rear panel wobbles noticeably when typing on the keypad.


Digicam-like hatch at the bottom 
The top part of the device holds the On/Off key only, which can also be used for fast switching between the ringing profiles.


Power button on the top
The right side of the Sony Ericsson K850 immediately got our attention, as things there surely look like a regular digicam. Very close to the end key is a three-position button for switching between the camera modes - camera, video recorder, and preview mode. Right above it is the shutter key, and the adjacent smaller on/off camera key.  There is no other mobile phone of the other leading manufacturers, except for the LG KU990 Viewty, which comes with such a bunch of dedicated camera keys. A convenient feature is that the on/off camera key is independent of the key lock. At the upper part of the right side we find the elevated V-shaped volume rocker, which also can be used for zooming when taking or browsing pictures.



Talking Cyber-shot: shutter key, three-position camera button and volume/zoom key
Turning the phone over reveals an entirely flat monolith surface, only broken by the xenon flash and the camera lens ring, as well as the elongated grill of the loudspeaker. All of them are placed beneath the panel surface, so if you look at the phone sideways you will see no dimples or bulges on the back panel. Next to the lens cover stand two essential symbols - the Cyber-shot logo and the 5.0 megapixel sign. Below the lens is the Sony Ericsson logo. Where the monolith surface ends, you will see the tiny battery cover, with its rubber-like finishing, that is supposed to keep the phone firmly in your arm, or if laid on a tilted surface. Where the back panel ends, two delicate curves that slightly lift the phone can be spotted, a resourceful way to protect the sleek surface from scratches and dust. Another probable reason, given they're level with the loudspeaker, is an attempt to ensure some kind of a sound-screen.




Glossy back: lens cap, flash, loudspeaker, Sony Ericsson and Cyber-shot logo
The Sony Ericsson K850 is powered by a Li-Poly BST-38 battery with a capacity of 930 mAh, a substitute for the standard BST-33 Li-Poly battery used in the other Cyber-shot handsets K550, K800 and K810. According to the manufacturer, the battery is capable of up to 400 hours of standby mode and up to 9 hours of talk time in GSM networks. Under very intensive usage, i.e. Bluetooth always on, 3G network, an hour of calls, an hour of media player, a good deal of trying the camera, gaming, browsing, etc., the battery hardly lasts for 36 hours. However, if used only in GSM networks and  not excessively strained, the phone will last for a good 3, even 4 days.



K850 battery, memory card slot and SIM card holder
Generally, we're quite pleased with the ergonomics of the Sony Ericsson K850. It feels nice when held in hand and fits perfectly in your palm. The three soft keys, the dual Call and End keys, the D-pad do take the phone handling to a higher level. However, after due examination, a few shortcomings get exposed. The excellent response of the three sensor-like soft keys is in great contrasts with the angular hard-to-push D-pad, which but ruins the navigation experience. The confirming center soft key is too close to the D-pad up key. Simultaneous keypresses occur now and then, resulting in undesired confirmation of a function - for example in a delete contact dialog window, the center soft key corresponds to YES.




K850 hands-on
summary: The Sony Ericsson K850 has a 262K-color TFT display with a QVGA resolution. The keypad is made of rubber-like soft plastic and needs more pressure when typing. The loudspeaker is one of the loudest and crispest we've tested.
 oneliner: The Sony Ericsson K850 is the latest version of the K810, the previous model being the T650.
 
Display enhanced
We were delighted with the Sony Ericsson K850 crystal clear display. It is a 262K-color TFT display with a QVGA resolution and has grown from 2" (in K810) to a 2.2" diagonal. In the world of numbers this is not a big deal, but it does matter in terms of display real estate. Furthermore, the display quality is tangibly improved in terms of both contrast and brightness. Dark colors are really dark. And that's verified: we compared it to the display of the same K810 we used in the previous review. Legibility in bright light conditions is another improvement, in comparison to the forerunner, going close to T650's level.

The K850 display in the dark
The keypad of the Sony Ericsson K850 offers square keys set sufficiently apart from each other, reminding of the keys of T650. This time they are made of rubber-like soft plastic and need more pressure when typing. You can hardly make any typos since the keys are wide apart. In our case, the keypad was evenly illuminated in blue as we were testing the Velvet Blue variety. With the added wave-like light effects it gains points on both usability and looks. Nicely, the D-pad is also illuminated in blue. The quality of the keyboard backlighting is just the same as in Sony Ericsson T650, again comparing with the handset we used in a recent review.


Keypad backlighting 
High level telephony
Sony Ericsson K850 is great at making and receiving calls. The loudspeaker is one of the loudest and crispest we've tested in a Sony Ericsson and you certainly wouldn't miss an incoming call even in noisy surroundings. It's excellent at bass and treble. This shouldn't surprise though, as the phone is media oriented too, featuring a Media Center with interface similar to Walkman 3.0.


Calling Dexter
Cool user interface
The user interface in K850 is the well known Sony Ericsson standard non-smartphone one, yet livened up with some refreshments and applications. The most important ones are the Media Center and the Flash Lite theme support, as well as the stylish light effects for incoming calls and the video ringtone support. As most previous models, the Sony Ericsson K850 comes with a dedicated Flight mode. When turning on the phone, you may opt to start it directly into Flight mode. Unlike its Nokia S40 rivals, the Sony Ericsson handsets cannot work in Flight mode unless a SIM card is inserted.



The most important ones are the Media Center and the Flash Lite theme support, as well as the stylish light effects for incoming calls and the video ringtone support.
ADVERTISEMENTS








In active stand-by mode the screen displays information about the network signal, battery strength, current date and time, plus the next alarm due. Pressing the navigation pad in any of the four directions can start a user-programmed feature or application. The main menu itself is a 4 x 3 grid of animated icons. All sub-menus are in list view with tiny icons on the left side. Response is fast in every submenu and application.



Standby view • the main menu • a listed sub menu
Like Sony Ericsson T650, the K850 also supports Flash Lite themes, even some of the preinstalled themes are Flash-based. They change not only the color scheme and the wallpaper, but also the menu icons themselves. We tested K850 with the default theme from T650 and sadly found out that the home screen animations didn't affect the keypad lighting in any way. We came to miss the captivating lighting effects of the T650. It is possible however that the lack of this functionality is only due to our handset being a pre-release unit.




Three of the preinstalled themes
There is an Activity menu which has a dedicated shortcut key on the keypad. The Running Apps tab of the menu offers multi-tasking - for example you can run two Java applications and listen to the radio or to the music player simultaneously. A new feature allows minimizing the dialog window when you receive a file via Bluetooth and opening the window on demand through the Running Apps tab on the Activity menu. This is really convenient, as now you can explore the phone in the meanwhile, as opposed to other Sony Ericsson phones, where you have to wait until the transfer completes. Strangely, this is not the case if you're sending files from K850 to another Bluetooth device. The two available options are "cancel" and "back" and both result in interrupting the file transfer. The Activity menu also offers quick access to recent events, the web menu and the My Shortcuts menu which contains a list of favorite features and can be modified to the user liking. The TrackID service is present here too, and is found in the My Shortcuts menu, in addition to its original location in the radio options menu. 



The only change in Activity menu is the added TrackID feature




TrackID at work
